layout: post
title: Exercism & Javascript
date: 2017-03-15 10:09:00
description: Customize standard Installation 
---

So I decided to work on my JavaScript skills. 

I usually am very skeptical when it comes to practise or work on my skills outside my day job. But things need to change. I am taking baby steps. First is to just start. So I tend to solve some of the problems during my lunch hours or break times during office. Once I will get in to the flow, I will slowly move this practice sessions on weekends by not caring what my beloved partners will think when I will respond "NO" to "Lets go for a camping". 

Last week I went to GGD event and found out about exercism.io, a learning platform. Which provides smart ways of learning through coding.

Just to note here due to some restriction I could not install node globally
on my machine hence this verbose process.

###Standalone Installation:

I have installed exercism.io as a standalone install. I did follow this blog: http://exercism.io/cli/install#installing-without-homebrew

###Test with Jasmine:

I have downloaded standalone jasmine (jasmine-standalone-2.5.2). 
Now for exercism’s exercises, I did follow their standard command to get all the exercises. 
<ul>
    <li>Manual copy of Jasmine’s SpecRunner.html file</li>
    <li>Wrote a solution</li>
    <li>Provided location of my source files for exercise &exercise.spec.js</li>
    <li>Ran the tests using SpecRunner.</li>
</ul>

###Exerpt from my SpecRunner

```html
<html>
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <title>Jasmine Spec Runner v2.5.2</title>
  <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png" href="/Users/saraht/exercism/jasmine/lib/jasmine-2.5.2/jasmine_favicon.png">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/Users/saraht/exercism/jasmine/lib/jasmine-2.5.2/jasmine.css">

  <script src="/Users/saraht/exercism/jasmine/lib/jasmine-2.5.2/jasmine.js"></script>
  <script src="/Users/saraht/exercism/jasmine/lib//jasmine-2.5.2/jasmine-html.js"></script>
  <script src="/Users/saraht/exercism/jasmine/lib//jasmine-2.5.2/boot.js"></script>

  <!-- include source files here... 
   <script src="exercise.js"></script>
    
  <!-- include spec files here...
   <script src="exercise.spec.js"></script>
</head>

<body>
</body>
</html>
<br/> 
```
